ladies and gentlemen welcome to the
horror mine where we talk about
mysteries thrillers and horror movies
this week my friends i'll be going over
the newly released 2021 horror film
candyman the film is a direct sequel to
the original candyman film released back
in 1992 candyman follows the story of
now grownup anthony mccoy an artist
struggling with his artistic creativity
like helen lyle of the original film
anthony becomes interested in the
candyman legend and begins doing
research on candyman as a source of
inspiration it is it long before anthony
digs himself too deep and discovers
secrets about his past and the
connections to candyman himself directed
by nia de costa and co-written by jordan
peele candyman is a beautifully shot
horror film with a haunting soundtrack
filled with great performances i'll be
explaining the events that take place
throughout the film and what the film's
ending means for the overall candyman
lore if you enjoy this video please
click the like button as it really helps
the channel and i truly appreciate it
but without further ado sit back and
relax and join me as we explore the
mythical urban legend of candyman our
movie begins with the universal mgm and
other logos appearing on screen
backwards as if being shown through a
mirror which was pretty neat during the
opening credits we see several locations
throughout chicago similar to the
opening of the original film however
instead of it being an overhead shot
like the original these shots are filmed
from the ground going up in 1977 a young
boy named william is playing with
silhouettes in his room and his mother
tells him to go do the laundry william
lives in cabrini green a public housing
project located on the north side of
chicago we see a heavy police presence
in the area searching for a man named
sherman who has been scaring all the
residents specifically children down in
the laundry room willian comes face to
face with sherman who creepily crawls
out of a hole in the wall this scene is
very reminiscent of when helen lyle
called out of the hole resembling
candyman's mouth in the original film
sherman has a hook for her right hand
and offers william some candy this
scares the hell out of william who
begins to scream which alerts the police
during the title sequence we are
introduced to this movie's amazingly
haunting soundtrack composed by robert a
low
we then meet our main character anthony
mccoy and marie's baby boy who was
abducted by candyman in 1992 and rescued
by helen lyle anthony is all grown up
now and portrayed by actor yaya abdul
mateen ii he is accompanied by his
girlfriend brianna her brother troy and
his boyfriend grady they briefly
discussed the gentrification of cabrini
green before troy tells them the urban
legend of helen lyle by the time the
police show up she's in one of the
apartments doing snow angels in a pool
of blood we see that the events of the
original film have drastically been lost
in translation over the years and now
portray helen as a crazy villain anthony
is an artist who has seemingly struggled
with inspiration the past couple of
years his girlfriend brianna is an art
gallery director with lots of
connections who gives anthony
opportunities to show off his work he
shows his latest piece to an art dealer
named clive who isn't impressed with his
work anthony tells him that he plans on
working on a new piece inspired by the
housing projects of cabrini green he
begins doing online research on cabrini
green's history and finds several
articles talking about helen lyle it's
interesting to see how helen's story is
now perceived by the public while
believe helen to be a crazed lunatic
that murdered several people and
abducted a baby the end of the original
candyman showed the residents of cabrini
green showing up to helen's funeral in
gratitude for having saved baby anthony
from candyman anthony visits an old
church in cabrini green and gets stung
by a bee while taking a picture
he enters a nearly abandoned part of
cabrini green and meets a man named
william burke portrayed by coleman
domingo who has got to have one of the
coolest names i've ever heard william is
revealed to be the kid from the
beginning of the film who went from
doing laundry to owning his very own
laundromat his mother would be so proud
he tells tony that helen lyle was
researching the legend of candyman helen
lie was out here looking for candyman
you asked me
i said she found them william tells him
the story of sherman fields a local man
with a hook for her hand who used to
hand out candy to all the neighborhood
kids one october
a razor blade shows up in a little white
girl's halloween candy the police
believe sherman was responsible and were
searching for him as depicted in the
film's first scene sherman came out of
the walls and offered young williams
some candy this caused william to scream
which alerted the police of sherman's
location a large group of police
officers brutally beat sherman to death
who was later found to be innocent
that's when we knew sherman had been
innocent
harmless sherman's story is possibly
linked to the razor filled candies helen
lyle found while investigating
candyman's lair the original candyman
took place in 1992 while sherman's death
occurred in 1977 the film never truly
confirms who was responsible for putting
the razors in the candy it's possible
that candyman himself was responsible
for this as a sort of way to instill
fear in the residence of cabrini green
to keep his name alive anthony becomes
inspired by sherman's story and paints a
depiction of his death he shows his
paintings to brianna and tells her about
the legend of candyman anthony then
playfully says candyman five times while
looking into his reflection in the
window unbeknownst to him he has
actually summoned the sherman fields
candyman who can be seen in the window
anthony's project is displayed during an
art show at clive's gallery his
paintings are displayed behind a vanity
mirror meant to bring awareness to the
candyman urban legend and its connection
to the racial injustice suffered by the
black community he attempts to explain
his work to an art critic named finley
who doesn't seem impressed and pretty
rudely shuts him down a drunk anthony
and clive trade insults at each other
which embarrasses and angers brianna
after the art show clive and his
girlfriend jerica are cleaning up a ton
of leftover beer bottles damn i didn't
know you could get so lit at an art show
while getting a little raunchy with each
other jerica decides to chant candyman 5
times in the mirror why do people insist
on playing candyman instead of simply
having sex like normal horny people a
flying bee lands on the mirror in front
of them which is the exact same beat
anthony sees while looking in the mirror
at the exact same time if we take a
close look we can see that the b anthony
is seeing is actually inside of the
mirror as if he were looking through a
two-way candyman suddenly appears and
brutally murders clive and jerica in a
really cool scene instead of simply
appearing like the original candyman
sherman's version can only be seen
through a mirror and is invisible to the
naked eye which is a really nice and
clever touch the next day the couple's
dead bodies are discovered by brianna
right in front of anthony's art piece
clive's stomach has been sliced open and
filled with bees hovering over his dead
body anthony's reaction to the news
shocks both brianna and troy as he only
mentions the fact that his name was
mentioned on the news
i mean obviously
obviously obviously it's awful that
night brianna is haunted by a nightmare
of her father's suicide we see a young
brianna approaching her father sitting
at the edge of a window her father was a
painter who by the look of his studio
seemingly went insane
i bet you didn't know your daddy could
fly
did you
she wakes up from her nightmare and sees
sherman's reflection inside of a mirror
and it was a nightmare within a
nightmare those are the absolute worst
she sees anthony standing in the
bathroom looking pretty out of it he
tells her he had a bad dream but he
doesn't elaborate what and closes the
door on her the next day he checks out
helen lyle's camera and audio files from
a library although you would think
they'd keep that as evidence in a police
station he walks into an elevator
surrounded by mirrors and his hand now
seems infected as a result of the bee
sting the elevator then begins to
malfunction and a piece of candy falls
to the ground the candy has a small
razor inside and anthony then sees a
reflection of sherman directly above him
before the lights go out this is pretty
odd considering sherman was supposedly
innocent and wasn't the one who put
razors in the candy this is something i
wish they would have just confirmed as
opposed to just taking williams's word
for it anthony's hand is now looking
extremely gnarly and disgusting and
seems to be spreading throughout his
whole arm he is aggressively painting a
face in his studio that is eerily
starting to resemble that of brianna's
father before his death we also hear the
audio tape of the two custodians being
interviewed by helen lyles speaking
about ruthie jean's death she heard this
banging and smashing like somebody was
trying to make a hole in the wall
anthony meets with the art critic finley
who has now taken interest in his work
because of the attention it's gotten
after the murders he calls her out on
her fakeness and dares her to summon
candyman in the bathroom i think i need
to use the bathroom oh this is a good
time isn't he
i dare you he goes to look for finley
and sees his reflection in the mirror to
be that of sherman's candy man
completely shocked by what he's seeing
he is brought back to reality by finley
and runs out of her apartment we then
get what is in my opinion the coolest
kill in the film as the camera slowly
pans away from her apartment finley is
murdered by candyman and her face is
dragged all along her window
showing that finley took anthony's
darren summoned candyman off-screen
anthony goes back to william to ask him
who or what exactly candyman really is
he tells of several men throughout
history that were unjustly killed due to
racism samuel evans in the 1950s william
bale in the 1920s and daniel robitaille
the original candyman in the 1890s
robotile was the son of a slave who
became rich by inventing a machine that
mass-produced shoes after the civil war
he had a natural talent for painting
portraits and was hired by a wealthy
chicago factory owner to do a painting
of his young daughter the two fell in
love and the woman became pregnant with
robotized child the father became
enraged by the revelation of their
interracial relationship and hired a
group of men who chased candyman all the
way to cabrini green
torching him nick
cut off his arm and jab and meet up with
the stump they smeared honey all over
robotile's body and he was stung by
numerous bees he was then burned alive
in front of a crowd and his ashes were
scattered all over cabrini green his
senseless racially motivated murder turn
robotile into a vengeful spirit and into
the urban legend of candyman candyman is
a symbol that represents the racial
injustice suffered by the black
community throughout the years and was
renewed after the deaths of william bell
samuel evans and sherman fields who each
became a part of candyman's hive brianna
sees the disturbing and dark faces of
all the different candyman that anthony
unknowingly depicted in the paintings he
tries to tell her that he made a mistake
by summoning candyman but she thinks he
has gone insane she tries to say
candyman in front of a mirror to prove
he's not real but anthony quickly
smashes the mirror and scares brianna
away she heads to her brother troy for
comfort who tells her that she doesn't
need to be present every time an artist
has a mental breakdown referencing the
parallel between the time she witnessed
her father's suicide and anthony's
current transformation at a high school
four teenage girls summoned candyman in
front of a bathroom mirror and are all
brutally murdered the kills sound
absolutely brutal but are only briefly
shown through a small circular hand
mirror the infection from the bee sting
has now spread throughout anthony's
entire arm and is starting to spread
through his body he seeks medical
treatment at a local hospital and finds
out he was born in cabrini green and not
on the south side of chicago like his
mother led him to believe he confronts
his mother anne-marie mccoy who is again
wonderfully portrayed by vanessa
williams he asks her about his past and
about candy
don't say that oh yes ma'am she tells
him that she kept the truth from him so
he could grow up happy and normal
something that was very clear from the
moment we met her in baby anthony in the
first film we see that anne-marie is
sporting the battle scar from when she
was cut by helen with a cleaver which
was a nice little detail i'm glad they
added she tells anthony that helen lyle
wasn't crazy and that she was the one
who rescued him from candyman candyman
had a purpose for anthony and wanted him
to burn with him the night of the fire
so they could live on in legend forever
anne-marie moved away from cabrini green
and refused to ever speak of candyman
again to protect her son candyman was
able to find anthony when he began his
research into cabrini green i believe
the exact moment he was found was when
he was stung by the bee in front of the
church the bees act as a sort of
extension of candy man which is why the
bee sting is starting to transform
anthony's body anthony is completely
distraught by the revelation and leaves
his mother's apartment without saying a
word he returns to cabrini green and is
lured by several flashes of light coming
from inside of one of the row houses
brianna notices anthony's absence and
goes to look for him at william's
laundromat she sees anthony's hat
sitting on the counter and the door
behind her suddenly closes and locks on
its own williams suddenly shows up
behind her and knocks her out now
we have a witness
in a flashback we see a young william
witness the murder of his own sister and
her friend at the hands of candyman in
the bathroom he sees the spirit of
sherman fields who smiles at william in
the bloody aftermath brianna wakes up
tied up by william in the middle of an
old church anthony is sitting in front
of the church and the infection has
spread to over half of his body he
appears to be in a catatonic state and
does not seem to have control of his own
body william places a call to 9-1-1
telling the police that the candy man
killer is located at the row houses in
cabrini green and is killing people ah a
black man around 30 he was waving a hook
and talking crazy i think he's killing
people down there william knew that baby
anthony would someday return to cabrini
green and finally be able to fulfill his
role in helping the candyman legend live
on forever william wants to turn anthony
into candyman and kill those responsible
for the gentrification of cabrini green
he then proceeds to saw off anthony's
right hand and sticks the infamous
candyman hook in the bloody stump
finally he places a cool ass candyman
jacket on anthony to complete the
transformation because no candyman is
ever complete without his badass coat if
we take a look at the first scene in
williams laundromat you can see this
very code hanging directly behind him
william reveals that he is banking on
the police to unjustifiably shoot
anthony which will allow him to truly
take on the mantle of candyman after his
death brianna manages to get free of her
binds and runs away from a now truly
insane william ready for the sacrament
he busts out two razor blade lollipops
and begins chasing after brianna she
runs into one of the row houses and we
see william's lips bleeding from having
sucked on the razor sharp lollipops
brianna runs up behind him and stabs
william in the eye with a pen from his
own laundromat she then repeatedly stabs
him to death
i think he's dead
i think so too a severely weakened
anthony falls to the ground and into
brianna's arms loud sirens fill the room
as the police arrive and briana screams
out for help as soon as the first
officer enters the house he yells for
anthony to put his hands up and
immediately and unjustifiably shoots him
to death this is the exact moment in
time that anthony was drawn to earlier
that evening brianna is then put in
handcuffs and placed into the back of a
police car a corrupt detective enters
the driver's seat of the vehicle and
attempts to intimidate brianna into
lying about the events that led to
anthony's death brianna tells him that
she will say whatever they want only if
he allows her to look at herself in the
rear view mirror she then says candyman
five times while looking in the mirror
which summons anthony mccoy's candyman
he then proceeds to murder the police
officers responsible for killing him and
trying to cover it up anthony then
slowly walks around the car and every
incarnation of candyman can be seen in
the car's windows as he circles around
the vehicle in the film's final scene
candyman kills the detective and reveals
his true form of daniel robitile
portrayed by none other than tony todd
himself
hello
everyone
as she looks on in complete shock
several more police vehicles arrived
behind her as the movie ends during the
end credits we see silhouette depictions
of all the candyman incarnations and how
they met their tragic deaths and that
ladies and gentlemen was candyman my
friends i was really looking forward to
this movie i love the original candyman
which has now become an underrated
horror movie classic although not as
good as i feel it could have been if
jordan peele was sitting in the
director's seat i thoroughly enjoyed the
2021 candyman film the film was
beautifully shot had a truly amazing and
haunting soundtrack and was filled with
great all-around performances
specifically from yaya abdulmatin ii and
coleman domingo the film does suffer
from a very short run time for the story
it was trying to tell it introduces many
different plot points that aren't really
elaborated on or fleshed out enough
which makes the film seem incomplete and
rushed for example we are told by
william that sherman was falsely accused
of planting razor blades in children's
candies however there was never really
any proof of his innocence as there
wasn't any mention of anyone else being
found guilty of that crime the reasoning
they give is that more razor blades were
found in more candies after his death
but it could have been sherman's spirit
as that's exactly what he gives to
anthony in the elevator scene since they
didn't really properly explore sherman's
story i feel the narrative would have
been more solid if daniel robitaille's
candyman was the focus instead sherman
fields could have been referenced like
the others and it would have made more
sense for anthony's arc the film
attempts to expand on the candyman
mythos and turns candyman into a
vigilante symbol of the consequences of
racial injustices suffered by the
community several men are said to have
taken the mantle of candyman after
daniel robitile but which candyman shows
up when the name is set five times in
the mirror sherman fields was killed in
1977 but daniel robitaille is the one
terrorizing cabrini green in 1992 so why
is sherman again the candy man that
kills people in 2019 this is something
that could have been further explored
and would have benefited from a longer
run time i also wish that the horror
elements were more present and prevalent
than they were there were several hints
of horror brilliance showcased
throughout however the horror and
mythical urban legend elements that made
the first movie so special were
ultimately overshadowed by the film's
heavy themes and social commentary i
definitely recommend candyman to fans of
the original and i definitely think
casual horror fans will enjoy this
modern take on a classic horror film but
ladies and gentlemen as always i hope
you enjoyed the video thank you all for
tuning in and i cannot wait to see y'all
right back here in the horror mine y'all
stick around